80% of Americans today say that they are
time starved and despite having more
tools available to make more use of our
time than we've ever had. What's going
on with that?
>> Take that statistic. Oh, we think that
we are time starved. And don't get me
wrong, I think there's truth to it, but
today screens generally are like I think
it's somewhere between six and eight
hours a day generally.
>> And you know that's not all productive
work, right? It's Instagram and
everybody complains about it. So, how is
it that we're time starved and yet we
can spend five
hours a day in entertainment, Netflix
and Apple and Instagram and like
>> or writing Instagram posts about how
time starved we are,
>> right? Yeah. Or another way to think
about this, which I think is a kind of
cool way to think about it, most of us
now have figured out some way to save
time with AI, but nobody's ever nobody
feels like they have their time back.
Oh, I got my time back. Had AI do the
outline
>> that I had my washing machine wash my
clothes. That I had the dishwasher wash
my dishes.
>> Exactly. I was in a company where we're
implementing this thing called fivestar
meetings.
And fivestar meetings is basically a way
to make sure all of your meetings are
really great. And the more people
implement it, what happens is people
spend less time in meetings because the
meetings that you have are really good
and you stop doing the ones that aren't
good and you find other replacements.
And so, so I'm sitting there and every
single executive around this table says
to me that they have saved a tremendous
amount of time. They're not going to all
these meetings, right? because they like
may maybe it's like two to three hours a
week, but most of the cases it's like
six or seven hours a week they're saving
and not going to certain meetings, not
being in meetings. And then you know 20
30 minutes later we're talking about the
investment we have to make to get
fivestar meetings more widely integrated
into the the company, how to make it
more powerful. And somebody said, "Yeah,
but we have to understand how busy we
are. We can't just like where are we
going to get the time for this?" And I
looked at the person. I was like, "Hey,
you just told me you save 7 hours a
week. What are you talking about?" And
when you looked at his face, it wasn't
shame that he had just been like called
out or something like that. It was
literally like he he was trying to
figure out how he could do that.
>> How he had how he did what? How he had
not see that all that extra time was
available to him.
>> How he saved all that time and yet he
still felt that busy. Yet he still felt
that much time scarcity
>> and you could see it. He was
He's like, "Oh yeah, oh yeah, of course
we have time to do this cuz it'll save
me more time." But it was literally the
mindset, the the definition was, "Oh, I
don't have enough time."
[Music]
This week on the art of accomplishment,
we're going to talk about why you don't
have enough time. We're going to talk
about what time scarcity is, where it
comes from, and what you can do about it
in your life.
>> What I see is what's really happening
is that it's usually almost always about
emotional overwhelm.
>> So, practically,
I'm a parent. I have a 5-year-old and a
seven-year-old, and I feel like I never
have enough time to get them to school.
So, I'm in the car. Oh my gosh, I'm
rushing them. Oh, there's not enough
time.
I'm overwhelmed in that in that place.
That's the there's emotional overwhelm
in that. And then I go through my day,
everything. And then at night, I feel
all this emotional overwhelm. I don't
want to feel it. So, I scroll. Maybe I
scroll too late. Maybe I don't get
enough sleep. Maybe I wake up late.
Maybe now I'm rushing again and I don't
have enough time again. So there's a
practical way in which when we're
sitting there scrolling and beating
ourselves up for scrolling as an
example. There's lots of other ways that
we do this.
We have apparently hours
but 4 hours before 6 hours before we
didn't have enough time to get the job
done.
>> Yeah. the more sense of urgency that we
have like, "Oh my gosh, I have to get
something done." And and particularly
urgency is
not the urgency that you have, say, in a
pickle ball game or a basketball game
where you are
rushing to the net and there's an
urgency there, but it doesn't have that
kind of stress that
time uh scarcity has. Yeah, you're
actually outside of time. You're just in
the you're in the moment right there.
You're just a great way to say it. Yeah.
Because we're present.
>> Yeah.
>> But in that time scarcity thing, what we
are is we're in the future.
>> And so that's the other big component of
time scarcity is that we are in the
future. We're thinking about what we
have to do next. We're thinking about,
oh, we have one more podcast to record
today. I have this other thing to
happen. And so we jump into our phone
because there we're not thinking about
the future. ah relief. I don't have to
think about the future. And so what is
time scarcity really? On some level,
it's emotional overwhelm. And the other
thing is it's just not being present.
It's being in the future. It's it's
thinking about the task that you have to
do while you're doing another task,
which is insanely stressful to tell
yourself you have to do something while
you're doing something.
>> Right? I'm remembering back to about an
hour ago where we were like, "Okay,
we're doing four episodes today. This
next one is going to be time scarcity.
We're going to talk about it over lunch
and we're going to come back and we're
going to record it. But we come back and
we we talk through it and suddenly
you're like, "Okay, cool. I'm going to
take a nap for 20 minutes and I'll come
back." And I was like, "Actually, I'm
tired, too. I'm going to take a nap."
So,
>> yeah.
>> You, me, and Mun all took a nap. Yeah.
>> And then woke back up and here we are
recording.
>> We all woke up with less time to do the
recordings and also not with time
scarcity, not without with that sense of
like, oh my god, urgency. There's more
urgency before we took the nap than
there was after we took the nap, even if
we had less time.
>> Yeah. So, we've established that the
sense of time scarcity is almost always
most of the time not about the actual
amount of time that you have, but just
about emotional overwhelm. Let's dive in
a little bit more into the emotional
overwhelm.
>> How how does that how does that work?
Time scarcity is al almost always a
um a response to stress.
And stress we like to think is that we
have too many things to do and not
enough time. But stress is often about
not feeling our emotions. Because right
now, if I say to you, stop feeling all
of your emotions.
You have to constrict your body. You
have to constrict muscles. And it's
stressful.
>> That's incredibly stressful.
telling yourself that you have to be
doing something. Being constantly under
attack in your head,
especially do something that you can't
do, like, oh, you're driving your kid to
school, but you're also thinking about
the fact that you have to get the
carpets cleaned and blah blah blah blah
blah, but you can't do it because you're
driving your kid to school in that
moment.
That's also stressful. So, that's
negative self-t talk is also stress. And
so, as we're doing those things that are
are creating stress for us. One of the
things that pops out of that is this
idea of time scarcity. Oh my gosh. Oh my
gosh. Oh my gosh. Particularly when
we're using any kind of stress that puts
us out of the present.
>> So even using something like connection,
something that we teach in the
connection course, the more connected
you feel, the less time scarcity you
feel.
>> So the emotional
>> when you're chasing the pickle ball,
you're feeling really connected to that
moment. And even if your laundry is
undone, it's it doesn't matter.
>> Exactly. As a matter of fact, the reason
I feel present and not that time urgency
in pickle ball, even though I'm rushing,
I'm running as fast as I can, is because
I can't in that moment think about
anything but what's happening right now.
>> Yeah.
>> And so that's the other the other piece
of it is that flow states is when we
lose track of time
and and that time scarcity is when we're
actually aware of time. And we know
through plenty of studies that flow
states are more productive. We know we
get more done that way. We know that
when we're thinking about time and
managing time and thinking about the
future, we do not get our jobs done as
well. I was just in a meeting the other
day and someone was like, "Oh, great AI
researcher doesn't even know what day of
the week it is." You could say that
about an artist. You could say that
about a programmer. You could say that
about anybody who's like fully in flow
state on their creation.
>> And when we're in those states, we don't
feel that time urgency. We feel the time
urgency when we are not present in the
thing that we're doing,
which is also a great way to describe
society. So if you think of that 80% of
society feels time scarcity, you could
just also say 80% of the of society is
not
>> Yeah.
>> is not present most of the their time.
>> Yeah. It's more of a diagnostic. Yeah.
>> If you're feeling the time scarcity or
if you're feeling time starved, it may
just be a sign that you haven't taken
the time
>> or the presence to be with what you with
what's really going on for you. Yeah.
>> And so you've outpaced yourself. You've
outrun yourself and you're trying to
catch up
>> on like an intellectual level or on
>> Yes.
>> That's right.
>> But on an emotional level, you haven't
been there for something.
>> Yeah. And the other the other thing
about the emotional overwhelm, I think
in particular that's interesting is
there's short-term emotional overwhelm.
I'm not going to feel that thing and
that creates some stress in my system.
>> But there's the long-term emotional
overwhelm as well. And what happens is
it be the angst grows
>> and then you need more and more things
to avoid the angst.
>> And then the more you avoid it, the more
the angst grows the you know and so this
thing compounds. It's like a bank
account of emotional debt. Like it's a
credit card of emotional debt.
>> Yeah. And you're just like, "Oh." And
the and it just starts building and
building and building. The funny thing
is we tell ourselves we need a long
time. We, oh, I have a whole this
emotional debt, so I'm going to go
handle it. And sometimes it just needs
like a 10-minute cry.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That reminds me of a
conversation I was having with my wife,
Alexa, last week while we were walking.
We were talking about the experiences
that both of us have had with ADD or
with like attention management.
>> Yeah. And there was a recognition like,
oh, what what I experience as ADD is
essentially I'm so conscious of time
that I'm not living in time.
>> Oh, wow. Yeah,
>> that's cool.
>> Yeah, that totally makes sense.
>> Yeah. And what it really tracks for me
is
>> is there something in me that is calling
out for my attention that I'm not giving
it
>> some emotional process, some emotional
and there's a symmetry in what you were
saying with this like acute and chronic
different versions of the emotional
overwhelm.
>> And there's a couple different ways
people talk about time starvation, time
scarcity. Yeah.
>> Which is there's one which is there's
just not enough time in the day to do
all the things I want to do. Yeah.
>> In general. And then there's another one
which is I'm late to the thing. I'm
behind on the thing. I'm And that seems
like it's more acute. Can you speak to
any distinction that you might see
between those two?
>> Yeah, it's interesting because so for
instance,
I my particular lifestyle is I am
extremely busy and I never feel like I
don't have enough time for my kids or I
always make time for the thing that's
most important to me. And so I never
feel that way. Even though if I had
twice as much time, I could do twice as
much. So it's like it's such a strange I
don't but I don't I don't buy into that.
>> Where I will buy in is
oh I have to hurry this up and get the
meeting done,
>> right? Which is particularly weird when
you think about how time dilation works
in the fact that often times if you give
yourself 45 minutes to do a meeting,
you'll get the same thing done that you
would have in an hour meeting. And I
know there's some principle that they
named that that we can put in the show
notes law.
>> Okay, that cool. And so there is some
sort of weird thing to that, but I will
be hurrying through a meeting. That's
where I will feel like that lack of time
that's available. So in the time the
short term it's very much the things
that we've been talking about which is I
need to get this thing done right now is
I'm in the future whether I'm in trying
to get to the end of the meeting I'm
thinking about the end of the meeting or
whether I am thinking about the next
task I have to do it's very much about
not being present in the moment whereas
when I'm thinking about it long term I'm
not doing stuff this week that will save
me time in 6 months from now. So, you're
running around in urgency where your
amygdala is firing, where you're in
fear, where you're not going to make as
good decisions, where you're not going
to learn as quickly. And the sacrifice
is a decision that can literally save
you years.
And so,
so there's a whole thing about getting
time to work for you instead of you
working for time. There's also
especially looking backwards which is
where a lot of that long-term stuff
happens which is far more grief oriented
and the forward is far more fear
oriented. I don't I don't have enough
time is a very urgent right now thing. I
didn't have enough time for my t kids.
Looking backwards it's very grief.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So if you move that grief
and you move that fear those are those
are the things that are keeping your
awareness from being here right now.
>> Yeah. to being with the unprocessed
grief in the past like, oh, I'm I'm
dropping all these balls. I'm not there
for my kids. I'm not there for my
family. I'm not there for my business.
I'm not there in the ways that I want to
be. And now I feel behind.
>> Right.
>> And then the forward-looking fear of how
I'm going to feel if this state
continues or gets worse.
>> Yeah.
>> Rather than just feeling, oh yeah, I'm
living one life. I'm one human. This is
the journey that I'm on. This is where I
am right now. This is what's here.
>> Yeah. I just noticed that a as you're
talking. Yeah. There's a sadness that
comes over me
because on some level it's like with
time urgency, we're trading our life in
the moment for an outcome that never
really shows up. M
>> or a false promise that if I stress
about time right now somehow
>> that'll lead to what I want more
>> more
>> than just being here with what's
>> which is crazy when you think about the
fact that
>> uh the more affluential people people
with more money have more time urgency
in their mind but they have more
resources to get other people to do
stuff for them
>> right and you can feel just as oppressed
by having an assistant and having a team
that suddenly you don't have enough time
to delegate everything anymore.
>> Exactly. And yeah, and that's an amazing
thing too is that like I think a lot of
people I think I I I did for years and
years and years feel felt very oppressed
by time
>> and and I remember listening to this
podcast and it was um
radio lab and they talked about time and
how time had changed how
before clocks time was done you know hey
come home when the birds chirp you when
this bird is chirping, that's when
you're supposed to come home.
>> Or when this, you know, there's this
natural rhythm to time. And then there
was this moment of time where
time
was railroad time, you needed a clock to
catch the train. And then the train
needed the time to be the same in all
the places so that there could be a
schedule. And so then there became these
like a town used to have a time. And
apparently, according to the podcast,
when people were like, "Okay, well,
you know, St. Louis doesn't have St.
Louis time anymore. There's going to be
a time for like the whole Midwest or
whatever." People rebelled. People got
upset. Like, there was like protests
over the fact that, Just imagine that.
You're like, "No, you're not taking away
our time."
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I just think about,
right, if we took away clocks, if there
was no such thing as you have to be here
at 5:00,
like then what would we put all this
urgency on? Like where would we put it?
Because people lived without that
concept for years and years and years.
And and
>> we're living with it as if it's real,
but it's it's really not real, which is
a fascinating.
It's we're just describing a reality.
And then we we bound ourselves to it. We
chained ourselves to it. And and I
remember this moment where I was at a um
I was at a retreat
and like time inverted in my mind for
the first time. And it's very hard to
describe it, but it was oh I've been
working for time. I am I am acting
in the way that what time wants from me,
but time could actually work for me.
M
>> and that's when when I started thinking
about time management completely
different. All of a sudden my task list
wasn't things that I had to do in a
certain amount of time. My task list was
what are the three things that I can do
that will take this whole task list away
or what's the thing that I can do today
that will save me a lot of time next
month like how do I plant a seed right
if I just
>> plant a time seed. I like that.
>> Yeah. Or or literally it's like planting
a seed. I can either run around trying
to forage food all day or I can plant a
seed and in 3 months I I just I don't
have to run around the forest. I can
just pick. So it's like literally
what are the things that I can do in the
business today that will save me time in
the future. And a perfect example of
this is raising kids or raising a dog.
upfront work, little little work up
front saves you a tremendous amount of
time on that back end.
You know, taking that time with somebody
and and feeling connected with them
saves you a lot of time on the back end.
Most people aren't even thinking about
money investment, but some people are
thinking about money investment in like
what can I do with my money today so so
I have plenty of it in the future?
which might just be another way of
saying how can I make enough money to be
able to use money to buy my time back
later.
>> Right. Exactly. But you can do the same
thing with time. I have time. How much
of am I investing into the future? How
much of the time am I investing into the
present?
>> Right. There is a there's that's another
way to look at time. And I remember when
it when time flipped like that for me. I
was like, "Oh, wait.
>> This is something that I can have work
for me as much as I can be working for
it.
And it's an interesting thing to know
now, you know, after venture capital and
doing this that I absolutely could
retire today. I could definitely not
have to work again for a day in my life
and might I won't have this the
lifestyle I have now. But to know like
to have that reality come into, oh wait,
I could have an incredibly simple life
where I had all the time in the world.
We're in a society where you can pull
that stuff off.
like we can actually choose to but to
have a lot of time if you choose not to
have a lot of stuff if you choose to
live simply and to have that recognition
like oh I'm making a choice
right when we have time scarcity we
don't feel a choice
it's fascinating also how
we can create so much time scarcity
around creating space to not feel time
scarcity like work really really hard to
go on the vacation and then imagine that
we will actually relax and not feel
stressed about everything we're going to
have to do when we get back. I recently
I had a meditation retreat planned. It
was like a seven eight day meditation
retreat.
>> And Alexa and I recently moved. So we
found a place, signed a lease, and all
the way that the timing worked out is
that we were going to be moving right
around the time when I had this retreat.
And so I was like, "Okay, well, I can go
to this meditation retreat." And the
entire time I'm hanging out there, I'll
be like, "Hm, somewhere out there, my
wife has a broken foot and there's no
way she's going to not try to move from
one house to another during this time."
>> No, she's not. She's definitely doing
it.
>> And I'm going to be hanging out
meditating with that and then come back.
>> Yeah.
>> And have an experience of what I haven't
done and what I have done. Or
I can cancel my meditation retreat and
why not be just as present with moving
as I might be in the retreat. Why not
bring that practice into the moving
process? And so that's what I did.
>> Yeah.
>> And it turns out I had plenty of time to
move as well as
>> hang out with myself in that process. It
was extremely meditative. I don't know
like
>> I I'm confused cuz I wasn't expecting to
enjoy moving
>> so much
>> but I did because suddenly I was like
this is my intention. I'm doing my
meditation retreat and I'm moving
>> and and you are focused on presence
>> right which is really the
thing like if you move the emotion so
you don't have the overwhelm you can be
more present if you exercise which is a
great saying that I think I think it was
the guy who did Virgin Atlantic or
whatever Virgin Records Branson who said
the best time management is exercise if
you're exercising
>> you feel like it it creates more
presence Anything that you do that
creates more presence creates less time
urgency
>> or less time
>> poverty or whatever the worst scarcity
and so so anything that you do around
that and your job was like oh I'm just
going to be present in this experience
and all of a sudden plenty of time.
>> Yeah. And one thing I learned in that
process also was that the tasks I was
doing while moving were very short
timeline like very quick feedback loop.
Yes. I move this box from here and I
move it over there and now it's done and
I can see that it's happened.
>> Which is very different from the very
abstract
>> form of work that many of us are
embedded in in our daily life where we
spin a plate and it comes back to us 6
months later
>> and we're kind of holding on to
something for that entire time.
>> This is a really important part too,
right? Part of the emotional overwhelm
is that we're holding a tremendous
amount of things simultaneously because
we don't close. Yeah. you know, so
there's this natural rhythm and there's
been some research on this, but I think
most of where I read about this was in I
think it was Loen's work. Um but
basically it's like you take on an
activity and you have to you gather
energy. You take on the activity but
then you need to at the end of that
activity
there is a period of um they have
different words for it but I'm going to
call it there's a period of integration.
There's a period of rest.
>> Mhm.
>> And if you do that if you actually do
that you're far more recharged than if
you just go from one thing to another to
another to another. a moment of
satisfaction.
>> Letting the dopamine land, let that
moment of satisfaction
>> actually.
>> So that rest and integration time is
really important to not have open loops.
And so I watch this all the time with
executives. They're going from meeting
to meeting to meeting to meeting to
meeting to meeting and oftent times
they're not taking the action that's
necessary to make the meeting investment
worthwhile.
Right.
>> Yeah. How many meetings end with an
action item that never gets done or
checked in on?
>> Right. Exactly. Exactly. And and you
don't notice it because you're going
from one meeting to another to another
meeting without having to any time to
think or thought. And so that's another
like trick that I use is I do not do
backto-back meetings.
It's I do meetings and then I do the
work around the meetings or uh one of
the people in the council what they do
is they do their meeting and then they
take
five minutes at the end of the meeting
they assign whatever tasks and then
everybody actually just takes some
actions towards it
>> at the end of the meeting. They just
like all right everybody let's just take
actions that we can take around the
meeting right now. And so it they
literally like take five minutes so that
they can integrate what happened in the
meeting into the rest of their life.
And I think we it probably be even more
effective is and then you're just like
okay everyone's just going to hang out
and rest for five.
>> That would probably that 10 minutes
would probably make you so much more
productive. And it's the same thing like
whether you're working out, you need
rest to recover the muscle stuff. Like
we have this thing where like
integration and rest is a really
important part of productivity and most
people forget about it.
>> So having having this sense of time
starvation, time scarcity could also be
a diagnostic for the fact that you're
not letting it not letting yourself
integrate, not letting yourself rest.
>> Yeah.
>> From between experiences.
>> Yeah. As a matter of fact, and Bill
Gates was apparently, you know, would
take a week off every quarter to just be
in the woods and think and consider,
call that integration, call it
relaxation.
I'll take the month of August off. I'll
take multiple like 4 day silent retreats
through like one a quarter outside of
the month that I take the month off.
I always come back with a feeling of I
have plenty of time and it's very hard
for me to rush and I'm not right because
I've actually had the time to integrate
and incorporate
>> what has happened for a while and the
further away I get from that the more I
notice that I like am likely to start
feeling that urgency again.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, what about somebody who
has let's just find an example where
somebody absolutely can't do what we
just described. Let's say they're in a
trench in a war somewhere or they are
>> Yeah, that's the amazing thing is people
in a trench in war actually do it better
typically than
>> every everybody else.
>> Oh wow. That reminds me actually a
friend of mine came back from they were
in Israel recently for work and he came
over. He was staying with us the other
night
>> and he was describing how
>> while he was hanging out the bomb
shelter even though a building just a
couple buildings down from him got
obliterated by a missile
>> Yeah. He realized that he felt less
stressed than he did when he got back
and started checking his email because
given the entire situation that was
happening, he had permission to just
slow down and stop and be present.
>> Yeah.
>> And nobody was expected to do anything.
>> Nobody's like the the all the the weight
of the false urgency of daily life
>> Yeah.
>> was just gone,
>> right? It was present. It's again, he's
in that he's in the same place that you
were when you were jumping off of a
cliff,
>> right?
>> All I can do right now is be here, be
present, and all of a sudden it's less
stressful, which is insane when you
think about it,
>> right? And also incredible that you can
you can track time so well in a moment
where you have no identity, no ego,
you're just connected to what's
happening and yet you have 5 seconds
exactly to deploy a parachute. And
that's a fascinating one because like
this the science of flow like flow state
>> Yeah.
>> shows that people can keep track of time
incredibly well under really high stress
situations because they're just in flow.
>> Yeah.
>> And you can you can track time better
when you're not thinking about time when
you're present.
>> Right.
>> Which is awesome. Like
>> but also what was happening is my body
was tracking something other than a
concept of time. It wasn't tracking
clock time. It was track tracking
something far more like what you were
describing from the podcast that you uh
mentioned which was tracking something
more like the moon or
>> right
>> how long it takes to cook rice or
>> you know I'm like watching the ground
rush as I'm getting closer to the ground
and there's just a sense there's a
feeling and it's related to what's
happening not related to what I think
should be
>> happening
>> happening according to a timeline that
I've constructed.
>> Right. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. You're in
you're in presence and so which is an
amazing right? So
it makes sense that
stress leads us out of the present or
being out of the present leads to stress
and then creates just a lot of
>> time scarcity.
>> Okay. So for somebody who's listening to
this episode and they already didn't
have enough time to listen to it to
begin with.
>> They clicked on
>> they didn't get here. We don't have to
answer their questions. Uh-huh.
>> Good.
>> How what what can somebody right now do
as they as they finish up this podcast
to
to address that overwhelm to honor to
recognize to
Yeah. Take five minutes every
two hours sit and do nothing.
like do absolutely nothing for five
minutes every two hours.
>> I'm hearing people like, "No, but I
don't have the time." Which reminds me
of the saying, if you if you don't have
time to meditate for 20 minutes,
meditate for an hour.
>> It also reminds me of the saying, which
is if you want something done, ask the
busy person.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. It's it's interesting how it's
both.
>> Uh what I can say is if you say that you
don't have the time to spend 5 minutes
every two hours. So let's say you're
awake 16
hours. So that's 8 * 5. So that's 40
minutes. If you don't have time, then
I'm assuming that you don't have time to
do 40 minutes of Instagram. You don't
have time to do 40 minutes of
television. you don't have time to do 40
minutes of
working out. Like I don't believe it. I
just don't believe that that's the case.
And and then I'll say do that five
minutes for one day. Like carve out the
40 minutes somehow for one day and
notice how much extra time you have.
>> Because the thing is that there there is
that thing that's really important which
is this slow smooth is fast. It's the
Marine Corps thing. It's we've all been
in that place where we're rushing out
the door and we forget the keys and then
we f rush back in, get the keys, get
back to the car and then oh we
forgot our wallet, go back and get the
wallet. You know, there's the study that
they did in the UK that during rush hour
traffic, they had one person break all
the rules and really rush and the other
person do all the rules and the person
who was rushing on the 60-mi commute
like got there like two minutes or like
a minute and a half faster,
>> right? And so what you're saying is that
minute and a half is worth that amount
of my life that I've just taken with all
that stress and adrenaline and cortisol,
>> right? And and so the the brain does
like convince us that we're saving time
when we're actually not. And there's
plenty of studies to show that that's
what happens in our brain is our brain
convinces us when we're in urgency that
we're actually getting things done
quicker when we're actually getting them
done less well,
>> right?
>> And slower. And and if you sit down for
those five minutes,
>> you're probably gonna initially rush
through those five minutes the way you
rush through everything else,
>> right?
>> Which is to think about the things
you're going to do next. You might find
yourself constricting and being like,
"Okay, I'll hold still for five minutes
checking the box to get the thing done."
>> Yeah.
>> And that's the stance that is creating
that situation in your entire life.
>> Yeah.
>> And in that same five minutes, you could
scream, cry, feel the fear.
>> Yeah. You could
>> be present with what is enjoy yourself.
Exactly. It's just about being present.
Yeah. And I think the other thing is
>> I think the the place where this becomes
most acute is the studies on
multitasking are pretty clear that
multitasking is not as effective as
doing one thing at a time
>> or is it that it doesn't happen? You
think you're multitasking
>> when you're not but you're just like
quickly going from one thing to another.
Yeah.
>> And then everything slows down. It's the
same thing. Even if you're not
multitasking by doing two things at
once, you're multitasking by having your
head two places at once.
>> Or having your head in a different place
than your heart.
>> Yeah. Yeah. The real efficiency comes
from doing just the thing you're doing.
>> Yeah. I'm noticing just a lot more
presence right now
>> having had this conversation.
It feels good.
>> I think that's time for today.
>> Thank you. Thank you, Joe.
>> Pleasure.
Thanks so much for listening. If you
enjoyed this episode, please share it
with a friend. Send it to somebody you
think you would enjoy it. Somebody who
thinks they don't have enough time to
even listen to a podcast. Maybe maybe
that's the perfect target for this. And
we'd love to hear your comments. You can
comment on the YouTube videos. You can
comment in the podcast apps. And you can
find us on X at art at fu Joe Hudson and
atkistler.
Till next time, take care.
[Music]